The oldest known board game is Senet, played in ancient Egypt around 3100 BC.
A standard Scrabble set contains exactly 100 letter tiles.
Monopoly was originally designed to demonstrate the problems with wealth concentration.
Chess has more possible game variations than there are atoms in the observable universe.
The longest game of Monopoly ever played lasted 70 straight days.
Settlers of Catan has sold over 32 million copies worldwide.
The word "checkmate" comes from the Persian phrase "shah mat" - the king is dead.
A Rubik's Cube can always be solved in 20 moves or fewer.
Go has been played for over 2,500 years and originated in China.
There are 2,080 possible first moves in a game of draughts (checkers).
Dungeons & Dragons was first published in 1974 and inspired an entire genre of games.
The modern six-sided die dates back to around 2000 BC in Mesopotamia.
Ticket to Ride was inspired by a cross-country train journey across America.
Pandemic was released in 2008 and has sold over 5 million copies.
The average board gamer owns around 50 games in their collection.
The Game of Life was one of the first board games published in the United States in 1860.
Mahjong originated in China during the Qing dynasty in the mid-1800s.
Risk was invented by a French film director, Albert Lamorisse, in 1957.
The word "board game" in German is "Brettspiel" - literally "board play".
Carcassonne is named after a medieval fortified city in southern France.
A standard deck of playing cards represents the 52 weeks of the year.
The longest Catan tournament game ever recorded lasted over 5 hours.
Azul was inspired by Portuguese ceramic tiles called azulejos.
Dominion (2008) invented the deck-building genre, now with hundreds of titles.
There are over 140,000 board games catalogued on BoardGameGeek.
Wingspan features over 170 unique bird cards, each with real species information.
The Royal Game of Ur is over 4,500 years old and was rediscovered in Iraq in the 1920s.
Backgammon is one of the oldest games still played today, dating back about 5,000 years.
In Scrabble, the highest possible opening move scores 126 points (MUZJIKS).
The first modern war game, Kriegsspiel, was developed for the Prussian army in 1812.
Clue (Cluedo) was invented in 1943 during WWII air raid blackouts in Birmingham, England.
Trivial Pursuit was created by two Canadian journalists who lost Scrabble pieces.
The board game industry has grown over 20% year-on-year since 2015.
Codenames has been translated into over 40 languages since its 2015 release.
Gloomhaven weighs nearly 10kg and contains over 1,700 cards.
Terraforming Mars is based on real science - each card references actual concepts.
Spirit Island was designed as the anti-colonial counterpoint to Catan.
Mancala-family games are played in almost every African country.
The largest board game collection on record contains over 4,500 games.
Dixit won the Spiel des Jahres in 2010 using only illustrated cards and imagination.
Power Grid simulates real electricity markets and was designed by a physics PhD.
BoardGameGeek was founded in 2000 and has over 3 million registered users.
7 Wonders can be played by up to 7 players with virtually no change in game length.
The game Hive has no board - pieces are placed freely on any flat surface.
Splendor was designed to have almost no text, making it language-independent.
Root uses asymmetric factions where each player follows entirely different rules.
The Spiel des Jahres award has been given annually in Germany since 1979.
King of Tokyo was designed by Richard Garfield, creator of Magic: The Gathering.
Patchwork is a two-player game that simulates quilting with Tetris-like tiles.
Everdell combines worker placement with tableau building in a woodland setting.
